docs: Add change doc introducing the concept of the keyring decryption contract (#131)
awslabs/aws-encryption-sdk-specification: changes/2020-06-04_how-to-fail-with-keyrings/change.md

  in future changes.

## Motivation

We lack a consistent definition both of
what it means for a keyring to fail
and what causes a keyring to fail.
Without this consistent definition,
different keyrings and implementations
do slightly different things,
leading to implementation drift
and confusion for users and implementors.

In order to clarify this situation,
we MUST first define what it means for a keyring to fail,
and that means defining what it means for a keyring to succeed.
To do this,
we define a new concept of the
"keyring decryption contract".

## Drawbacks

This change SHOULD not introduce any drawbacks.
It is simplifying and clarifying
a relationship that already exists
in the specification
and clearly defining
how that relationship affects behavior.

## Security Implications

The keyring decryption contract
simplifies the definition of
the security properties of a keyring
and provides a consistent way to describe
the security properties of each keyring.

## Operational Implications

Clearly defining what causes keyrings to fail
makes it simpler for users to predict failing behavior
based on either environment
and across implementations.

## Guide-level Explanation

> When a keyring succeeds on encryption,
> it creates an artifact: one or more encrypted data keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On encryption a keyring
creates an artifact: one or more encrypted data keys.
```

I don't know that we care about the succeed/fail problem here.

Author: That's one that I could go either way on. On the one hand, stating that "this always happens on encryption" is inaccurate because if it fails, by definition that does not happen. On the other hand, I think you might be right that at this point in the doc we should just assume that everything is working correctly.

Reviewer: I think that the creation of the artifacts IS success.
At least in the context of this doc :)

This artifact has certain requirements that
MUST be met on decryption
in order to obtain the plaintext data key.
This set of requirements is what we call
the "keyring decryption contract."
The process that a keyring uses to create this artifact

> is largely irrelevant to the decryption contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is only relevant as a mechanism to fulfill the decryption contract.
```

Or something positive.  The keyring is responsible for fulfilling the contract, and if the artifact can help enforce that great, otherwise, as you say it is not relevant.

What matters is the requirements
that a decryption contract defines.

## Reference-level Explanation

### Definitions and Terms

- **writing the decryption contract** :
  This refers to the process of taking the plaintext data key
  and successfully creating an artifact
  (one or more encrypted data keys)

>   that requires a decrypting keyring to
>   fulfill the encrypting keyring's decryption contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  that a decrypting keyring can use to
  fulfill the keyring decryption contract.
```

The method of communication between keyrings is the artifact.
And I don't think we can really enforce needing a keyring to do this.

Once the contract is written is it immutable?
If so, then I think that this artifact _is_ the contract.

Still noodling.

- **fulfilling the decryption contract** :
  This refers to the process of taking one or more encrypted data keys
  and successfully using them to obtain the plaintext data key.

### How to Fail

On encryption,
if a keyring is unable or unwilling to
write its decryption contract,
that keyring MUST fail.

On decryption,
if a keyring is unable or unwilling to
fulfill its decryption contract

> using the encrypted data keys that it receives,

Reviewer: Does the decryption keyring have a contract?  Or is it trying/able to fulfill the contracts it receives? e.g. the encrypted data keys?

Author: > Does the decryption keyring have a contract?

No, but it does need to be able to determine if it SHOULD be able to fulfill a given decryption contract (EDK).

Reviewer: Then what about this?

```suggestion
fulfill the decryption contract
of the encrypted data keys that it receives,
```

Reviewer 2: +1, I think we should be consistent that "the decryption contract of a keyring" always refers to the decryption contract of the artifacts it produces when encrypting.

  is out of scope.
  We will address this in future specification changes.

- The specific nature of _how_ ESDK framework components indicate failure
  is out of scope.
  That will depend on the best practices for each language.

- Defining the decryption contract for each keyring
  is out of scope.
  We will address this in future specification changes.

- A mechanism to interrogate a keyring
  to determine the properties of its decryption contract
  is out of scope.
  We SHOULD address this in future changes.

- This change only applies to keyrings.
  We SHOULD define analogous concepts for
  cryptographic materials managers
  and the AWS Encryption SDK client
  in future changes.

## Motivation

We lack a consistent definition both of
what it means for a keyring to fail
and what causes a keyring to fail.
Without this consistent definition,
different keyrings and implementations
do slightly different things,
leading to implementation drift
and confusion for users and implementors.

In order to clarify this situation,
we MUST first define what it means for a keyring to fail,
and that means defining what it means for a keyring to succeed.
To do this,
we define a new concept of the

> "keyring decryption contract".

Reviewer 2: The "keyring" part here is still the main sticking point for me: is the decryption contract ultimately owned by the artifact, or is it attached to the keyring that produced it and the artifact inherits it?

I think this is the key question: if it is possible to encrypt using a Master Key and decrypt using a Keyring, does that mean the contract is ultimately a property of the artifact(s), and the "keyring decryption contract" should be "the decryption contract of the artifacts this keyring produces"? Otherwise we are stating that there is no contract involved in the migration path.

Author: The line I'm trying to thread here is that:

1. These artifacts are created and consumed by keyrings.
1. The keyring's decryption contract MUST be fulfilled through the use of that artifact.
1. In future changes we SHOULD introduce a concept of a CMM decryption contract, which is different than the decryption contracts that are written and fulfilled by keyrings.

The keyring is the actor, so "keyring decryption contract". Unless we can come up with a better name, I would be inclined to say that that CMM analogue should be a "CMM decryption contract."

Reviewer 2: I see your point about disambiguating the scope of the contract. Would it be better to use "key decryption contract" instead?

Reviewer: Why not "decryption contract" for the artifact and then it can be qualified by who it handling or verifying the contract?

Reviewer 2: As in the decryption contract for the artifact is implicitly a "key decryption contract" because of the kind of artifact it is, and so the decryption contract for the whole message is implicitly a "CMM decryption contract" or similar?

Reviewer 3: I personally prefer the `keyring decryption contract`. This is less about how to decrypt the key and more about what the keyring needs to be able to decrypt the key. For example, for the AWS KMS Keyring, you need AWS KMS Decrypt API permissions. The key itself doesn't care about network calls/ AWS permissions, but the keyring does care.

## Drawbacks

This change SHOULD not introduce any drawbacks.
It is simplifying and clarifying
a relationship that already exists
in the specification
and clearly defining
how that relationship affects behavior.

## Security Implications

The keyring decryption contract
simplifies the definition of
the security properties of a keyring
and provides a consistent way to describe
the security properties of each keyring.

## Operational Implications

Clearly defining what causes keyrings to fail
makes it simpler for users to predict failing behavior
in different environments and implementations.

## Guide-level Explanation

On encryption,
a keyring creates an artifact:
one or more encrypted data keys.
This artifact has certain requirements that
MUST be met on decryption
in order to obtain the plaintext data key.
This set of requirements,
manifested as the artifact,
is what we call the "keyring decryption contract."

## Reference-level Explanation

### Definitions and Terms

- **decryption contract** :
  This refers to a set of requirements
  that MUST be satisfied in order to obtain

>   the plaintext data key.

Reviewer 2: This definition makes me think the name really should be some variation of "key decryption contract" to disambiguate.

a relationship that already exists
in the specification
and clearly defining
how that relationship affects behavior.

## Security Implications

The decryption contract
simplifies the definition of
the security properties of a keyring
and provides a consistent way to describe
the security properties of each keyring.

## Operational Implications

Clearly defining what causes keyrings to fail
makes it simpler for users to predict failing behavior
in different environments and implementations.

## Guide-level Explanation

On encryption,
a keyring creates one or more "decryption artifacts",
sometimes called "encrypted data keys",
that are included in the resulting encrypted message.
On decryption,
a keyring consumes decryption artifacts
and fulfills a set of requirements
by using these decryption artifacts
to obtain the plaintext data key.
This set of requirements is what we call the "decryption contract."

## Reference-level Explanation

### Definitions and Terms

- **decryption artifact** :
  A value that is consumed on decryption
  to obtain decryption materials.

- **decryption contract** :
  A set of requirements that MUST be met
  to obtain decryption materials

>   using a decryption artifact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  using one or more decryption artifacts.
```

- **creating the decryption artifact** :

>   The process of creating a decryption artifact

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The process of creating one or more decryption artifacts
```

  intended for a component with a specific decryption contract.

- **fulfilling the decryption contract** :

>   The process of taking a decryption artifact

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The process of taking one or more decryption artifacts
```

Clearly defining what causes keyrings to fail
makes it simpler for users to predict failing behavior
in different environments and implementations.

## Guide-level Explanation

On encryption,
a keyring creates an artifact:

> one or more encrypted data keys.

Reviewer: See #158. There is some cross pollination of words that might be good to have.
Not necessarily something to block on.

## Guide-level Explanation

On encryption,
a keyring creates one or more "decryption artifacts",
sometimes called "encrypted data keys",
that are included in the resulting encrypted message.
On decryption,

> a keyring consumes a decryption artifact
> and fulfills a set of requirements
> by using the decryption artifact

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a keyring consumes decryption artifacts
and fulfills a set of requirements
by using these decryption artifacts
```

at a minimum the keyring gets multiple...

As I keep reading the plural singular is everywhere.
Maybe leaving it all singular is better.
But I don't want to require a 1:1 relationship.

to obtain the plaintext data key.
This set of requirements is what we call the "decryption contract."

## Reference-level Explanation

### Definitions and Terms

- **decryption artifact** :
  A value that is consumed on decryption
  to obtain decryption materials.

- **decryption contract** :
  A set of requirements that MUST be met
  to obtain decryption materials
  using a decryption artifact.

- **creating the decryption artifact** :
  The process of creating a decryption artifact
  intended for a component with a specific decryption contract.

- **fulfilling the decryption contract** :
  The process of taking a decryption artifact
  and using it to meet the requirements of
  a decryption contract
  in order to obtain the plaintext data key.

### How to Succeed

On encryption,
a keyring creates one or more decryption artifacts.

On decrypt,
a keyring fulfills its decryption contract
using one or more decryption artifacts.

### How to Fail

> In encryption,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On encryption,
```
